---
title: 'Document tree view'
---

Document tree view
==================

The main goal of the extension is to permit installations with a large
number of documents to access a structured list view of the documents.
By default the document list view shows a list of all folders with a set
of documents it contains. We have clients with over **34000 documents in
over 400 folders**. In this type of installation you cannot access the
document list view. So we created a tree view that shows the list of
folders without retrieving the documents within, when you click on a
folder only the list of the documents contained in it are returned. With
this setup we regain access to a structured view of the documents in our
system.  
On this new view we have implemented some of the functionality the
current document list view has, at least the basic functionality. You
can create folders, move documents between folders, add documents,
download and edit, among others.  
We have also added a different way of accessing the documents. Not only
can we see the list of folders and documents, but we can see them by
entity. So you can click on the Account folder and see a list of all the
folders that contain at least one document associated to an account.  
---- dataentry ---- name : tsolucio/vtDocsTreeview type :
corebos-extension description\_wiki: The main goal of the extension is
to permit installations with a large number of documents to access a
structured list view of the documents. By default the document list view
shows a list of all folders with a set of documents it contains. We have
clients with over **34000 documents in over 400 folders**. In this type
of installation you cannot access the document list view. So we created
a tree view that shows the list of folders without retrieving the
documents within, when you click on a folder only the list of the
documents contained in it are returned. With this setup we regain access
to a structured view of the documents in our system.  
On this new view we have implemented some of the functionality the
current document list view has, at least the basic functionality. You
can create folders, move documents between folders, add documents,
download and edit, among others.  
We have also added a different way of accessing the documents. Not only
can we see the list of folders and documents, but we can see them by
entity. So you can click on the Account folder and see a list of all the
folders that contain at least one document associated to an account.
keywords\_tags : documents,list,tree,view,management version : 1.0
homepage\_url :
<http://corebos.org/documentation/doku.php?id=en:extensions:extensions:vtdocstreeview>
release\_dt : 2010-02-27 licenses : Vizsage price : 120eur
buyemail\_mail : paypal(at)tsolucio(dot)com distribution : Sale
authorname : JPL TSolucio, S.L. authoremail\_mail :
info(at)tsolucio(dot)com supportemail\_mail : info(at)tsolucio(dot)com

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  

Some Screenshots
================

<img src="/en/extensions/extensions/vtdocstreeview/vtdoctreeview.png" class="align-center" alt="Document Tree View" />  
  
<img src="/en/extensions/extensions/vtdocstreeview/docfolders.png" class="align-center" alt="Document Folder" />  
  
<img src="/en/extensions/extensions/vtdocstreeview/addfolder.png" class="align-center" alt="Add Folder" />  
  
<img src="/en/extensions/extensions/vtdocstreeview/doctypes.png" class="align-center" alt="Documents inside folder" />  
  
<img src="/en/extensions/extensions/vtdocstreeview/move_doc1.png" class="align-center" alt="Move document to another folder" />  
  
<img src="/en/extensions/extensions/vtdocstreeview/move_doc2.png" class="align-center" alt="Document moved" />  
  
<img src="/en/extensions/extensions/vtdocstreeview/account_docview.png" class="align-center" alt="Folders and Documents related to Accounts" />  
  
